OPENING SESSION 1 . 
Approval of the ('ORGANIZATION', 'Agenda') 2 . 
Approval of the ('ORGANIZATION', 'Open Session Minutes') of October 25 , 2017 Comments from the Chair ( no documents ) 3 . 
('ORGANIZATION', 'ACTION') ITEMS 4 . 
5 . 
Proposal from the ('ORGANIZATION', 'Faculty') of ('ORGANIZATION', 'Graduate Studies') & Research for a new course-based MA in History of ('GPE', 'Art') , ('PERSON', 'Design') and ('PERSON', 'Visual Cultural') ( ('ORGANIZATION', 'HADVC') ) , ('ORGANIZATION', 'Department') of ('PERSON', 'Art') and ('PERSON', 'Design Motion') : To Approve with ('PERSON', 'Delegated Authority Proposal') from the ('ORGANIZATION', 'Faculty') of ('ORGANIZATION', 'Graduate Studies') & Research for a new combined ('ORGANIZATION', 'MSc') in ('GPE', 'Physical') Therapy/PhD in ('ORGANIZATION', 'Rehabilitation Science') ( MScPT/PhD ) program , ('ORGANIZATION', 'Department') of ('ORGANIZATION', 'Physical Therapy') and the ('ORGANIZATION', 'Faculty') of ('ORGANIZATION', 'Rehabilitation Medicine') . 
Motion : To Approve with ('PERSON', 'Delegated Authority') ('ORGANIZATION', 'DISCUSSION') ITEMS 6 . 
Update on the ('ORGANIZATION', 'Budget') – Planning Framework 7 . 
2016-17 Mandatory Non-Instructional Fees ( ('ORGANIZATION', 'MNIFs') ) ('PERSON', 'Annual Report') ('ORGANIZATION', 'ACADEMIC') PLANNING ('ORGANIZATION', 'COMMITTEE') OPEN SESSION AGENDA Wednesday , November 08 , 2017 2-31 ('LOCATION', 'South Academic') Building ( ('ORGANIZATION', 'SAB') ) 2:00 ('ORGANIZATION', 'PM') - 4:00 PM ('PERSON', 'Steven Dew Steven Dew Steven Dew Deborah Burshtyn Elizabeth') ( ('ORGANIZATION', 'Betsy') ) ('PERSON', 'Boone Deborah Burshtyn Patricia Manns Steven Dew Gitta Kulczycki Steven Dew Steven Dew') Question Period 8 . 
('ORGANIZATION', 'INFORMATION') REPORTS 9 . 
2018-19 ('ORGANIZATION', 'Academic') Price Index ( ('ORGANIZATION', 'API') ) Calculation for ('PERSON', 'Mandatory') Non- Instructional Fees Items Approved by ('ORGANIZATION', 'GFC Academic') Planning Committee by e-mail ('GPE', 'Ballots') ( no items to date ) Information ('PERSON', 'Items Forwarded') to ('ORGANIZATION', 'Committee Members Between Meetings') ( no items to date ) 10 . 
11 . 
This agenda and its corresponding attachments are transitory records . 
('ORGANIZATION', 'University Governance') is the official copy holder for files of the ('ORGANIZATION', 'Board') of ('GPE', 'Governors') , ('ORGANIZATION', 'GFC') , and their standing committees . 
Members are instructed to destroy this material following the meeting . 
Next meeting : November 29 , 2017 Next General ('PERSON', 'Faculties Council') Meeting : November 27 , 2017 ('ORGANIZATION', 'GFC Academic') Planning Committee 11/08/2017 Page 2 CLOSING SESSION 12 . 
13 . 
Presenter ( s ) : Steven ('PERSON', 'Dew Deborah Burshtyn Elizabeth') ( ('ORGANIZATION', 'Betsy') ) ('PERSON', 'Boone Patricia Manns Gitta Kulczycki Chair') , ('ORGANIZATION', 'GFC Academic') Planning Committee ; Provost and Vice-President ( ('ORGANIZATION', 'Academic') ) Vice Dean , ('PERSON', 'Faculty') of ('ORGANIZATION', 'Graduate Studies') and ('PERSON', 'Research Professor') , ('PERSON', 'History') of ('GPE', 'Art') , ('GPE', 'Design') , and ('PERSON', 'Visual Culture') , ('ORGANIZATION', 'Department') of ('PERSON', 'Art') and ('PERSON', 'Design Associate Dean') , ('ORGANIZATION', 'Graduate Studies') , ('PERSON', 'Faculty') of ('ORGANIZATION', 'Rehabilitation Medicine') Vice-President ( ('ORGANIZATION', 'Finance') and ('ORGANIZATION', 'Administration') ) Documentation was before members unless otherwise noted . 
Meeting ('ORGANIZATION', 'REGRETS') to : Prepared by : ('ORGANIZATION', 'University Governance Andrea Patrick') , 780-492-1937 , apatrick @ ualberta.ca ('PERSON', 'Meg Brolley') , ('GPE', 'Coordinator') , ('ORGANIZATION', 'GFC Academic') Planning Committee www.governance.ualberta.ca Wednesday , October 25 , 2017 2-31 ('LOCATION', 'South Academic') Building ( ('ORGANIZATION', 'SAB') ) 2:00 ('ORGANIZATION', 'PM') - 4:00 PM General ('PERSON', 'Faculties Council Academic Planning Committee') Open Session Minutes Florence Glanfield Christopher ('PERSON', 'Mackay Jerine Pegg Babak Soltannia Eleni Stroulia') Non-voting : ('PERSON', 'Lisa Collins') ATTENDEES : ('PERSON', 'Steven Dew') , ('PERSON', 'Chair Roger Moore') , Vice-Chair ('PERSON', 'Jason Acker Benjamin Angus Marina Banister Darcy Bemister Katy Campbell Susan Hamilton') ( delegate ) ('PERSON', 'Shannon Erichsen') OPENING SESSION 1 . 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file . 
Motion : Banister/Moore THAT the ('ORGANIZATION', 'GFC Academic') Planning Committee approve the ('GSP', 'Agenda') . 
Approval of the ('ORGANIZATION', 'Agenda') REGRETS : ('PERSON', 'Gitta Kulczycki Sarah Stahlke') STAFF : ('PERSON', 'Meg Brolley') , ('PERSON', 'Coordinator Marion') Haggarty-France , ('ORGANIZATION', 'University') Secretary ('PERSON', 'Andrea Patrick') , ('PERSON', 'Scribe Approval') of the ('ORGANIZATION', 'Open Session Minutes') of October 11 , 2017 2 . 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file . 
Motion : Stroulia/Acker THAT the ('ORGANIZATION', 'GFC Academic') Planning Committee approve the ('ORGANIZATION', 'Minutes') of October 11 , 2017 . 
('ORGANIZATION', 'CARRIED') CARRIED 3 . 
Comments from the Chair The ('ORGANIZATION', 'Chair') reported that there have been no updates from the province on the tuition and funding model reviews . 
('ORGANIZATION', 'ACTION') ITEMS 4 . 
Proposal for substantive revisions to the curriculum of the ('ORGANIZATION', 'Master') of ('ORGANIZATION', 'Public Health') ( ('ORGANIZATION', 'MPH') ) in the ('ORGANIZATION', 'School') of ('ORGANIZATION', 'Public Health') , ('PERSON', 'Faculty') of ('ORGANIZATION', 'Graduate Studies') & ('ORGANIZATION', 'Research Materials') before members are contained in the official meeting file . 
('ORGANIZATION', 'GFC Academic') Planning Committee 10/25/2017 Page 2 Presenter ( s ) : ('PERSON', 'Deborah Burshtyn') , ('ORGANIZATION', 'Associate Dean') , ('PERSON', 'Faculty') of ('ORGANIZATION', 'Graduate Studies') and ('GPE', 'Research') ( ('ORGANIZATION', 'FGSR') ) ; ('PERSON', 'Jeffrey Johnson') , ('ORGANIZATION', 'Associate Dean') , ('PERSON', 'Education') , ('ORGANIZATION', 'School') of ('ORGANIZATION', 'Public Health') ; ('PERSON', 'Ruth Wolf') , ('PERSON', 'Practicum Program Director') , ('ORGANIZATION', 'School') of ('ORGANIZATION', 'Public Health Purpose') of the Proposal : The proposed calendar changes represent a restructuring of the core curricula across all seven of our current ('ORGANIZATION', 'MPH') degree programs . 
This involves a replacement of the current common core courses required for all MPH degree programs with a set of newly developed common core courses , and consequent revision of specialization requirements . 
Discussion : Dr ('PERSON', 'Burshtyn') noted that this proposal represents an overhaul for the program requirements for second level specializations in the ('ORGANIZATION', 'Master') of ('ORGANIZATION', 'Public Health') and that it is structured around outcomes and competencies . 
She also noted that this is a good example of how Dr ('PERSON', 'Johnson') noted that the redesign allows for a common core curriculum for all of the second level specializations that integrates these specializations and provides more interdisciplinary training . 
The program aims to prepare public health practitioners for a clinical environment . 
Dr ('PERSON', 'Wolfe') confirmed that equity and social justice are core values in public health and that ('ORGANIZATION', 'Aboriginal') health and marginal populations would be included in the courses . 
During the discussion , the importance of indigenous health was acknowledged and was being integrated into the core courses currently in development . 
Members expressed additional questions in relation to fees , terms , and the removal of certain courses in the redesign . 
It was also noted that the proposal represents a good example of program design . 
Motion : Acker/Campbell THAT the ('ORGANIZATION', 'GFC Academic') Planning Committee approve , under delegated authority from ('ORGANIZATION', 'General Faculties Council') , the proposal for revisions to the curriculum of the ('ORGANIZATION', 'Master') of ('ORGANIZATION', 'Public Health') ( ('ORGANIZATION', 'MPH') ) in the ('ORGANIZATION', 'School') of ('ORGANIZATION', 'Public Health') as proposed by the ('ORGANIZATION', 'Faculty') of ('ORGANIZATION', 'Graduate Studies') & Research , and as set forth in Attachment 1 , to be effective for admissions to Fall 2018 . 
('ORGANIZATION', 'CARRIED Proposal') for ('ORGANIZATION', 'Substantive') Changes to the ('ORGANIZATION', 'Undergraduate Nursing Curriculum') , ('PERSON', 'Faculty') of Nursing 5 . 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file . 
Presenter ( s ) : ('PERSON', 'Greta Cummings') , ('GPE', 'Dean') , ('PERSON', 'Faculty') of ('GPE', 'Nursing') ; ('PERSON', 'Olive Yonge') , ('GPE', 'Vice-Dean') ; Faculty of ('GPE', 'Nursing') ; ('PERSON', 'Sandra Davidson') , ('ORGANIZATION', 'Associate Dean') ( ('ORGANIZATION', 'Undergraduate') Programs ) , ('PERSON', 'Faculty') of ('ORGANIZATION', 'Nursing Purpose') of the Proposal : To discuss and approve substantive changes to the ('ORGANIZATION', 'Undergraduate') Nursing program , the proposed transition plans ( cross-walks ) , and the associated admissions and academic standing calendar changes for these program changes . 
Discussion : Dean ('ORGANIZATION', 'Cummings') reported that this proposal represents two years of planning and extensive development culminating in over one hundred recommendations for the new curriculum . 
Dr ('PERSON', 'Davidson') provided an overview to the committee noting that the changes are student-focused and meet the ('GPE', 'Canadian') Association of ('ORGANIZATION', 'Schools') of ('GPE', 'Nursing') ( ('ORGANIZATION', 'CASN') ) accreditation standards and comply with competencies ('ORGANIZATION', 'GFC Academic') Planning Committee 10/25/2017 Page 3 required by the ('ORGANIZATION', 'College') and ('ORGANIZATION', 'Association') of ('ORGANIZATION', 'Registered Nurses') of ('GPE', 'Alberta') ( ('ORGANIZATION', 'CARNA') ) . 
Dr ('PERSON', 'Davidson') explained that the new program aims to develop nurse leaders who can facilitate change in a clinical setting . 
Dr ('PERSON', 'Yonge') explained that a cross-walk program has been developed for students who entered the program in the fall of 2017 which will allow them to move into year two of the new programs in the fall of 2018 . 
Members , during the discussion , commended the presenters for their inclusion of indigenous health . 
Members sought clarification regarding the length of the program , the changes to academic performance , and a member suggested an editorial amendment to the calendar wording in the proposal . 
Motion : Glanfield/Hamilton THAT the ('ORGANIZATION', 'GFC Academic') Planning Committee approve , with delegated authority from ('ORGANIZATION', 'General Faculties Council') , proposed changes to the ('ORGANIZATION', 'Undergraduate Nursing Curriculum') , as proposed by the ('ORGANIZATION', 'Faculty') of ('GPE', 'Nursing') , and as set forth in Attachment 1 , to take effect Fall 2018 . 
('ORGANIZATION', 'CARRIED') Learning Moment : Program Budgets contained in ('GPE', 'Academic') Program Proposals DISCUSSION ITEMS 6 . 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file . 
Presenter ( s ) : ('PERSON', 'Chad Schulz') , ('PERSON', 'Director') , ('ORGANIZATION', 'Integrated Finance Services') ; ('PERSON', 'Edith Finczak') , ('PERSON', 'Director') , ('PERSON', 'Academic Budget') & ('GPE', 'Planning') ; ('PERSON', 'Tammy Hopper') , Vice-Provost ( Programs ) Purpose of the Proposal : To brief the ('ORGANIZATION', 'GFC Academic') Planning Committee on how program budgets are being drafted to satisfy the requirements of the ('ORGANIZATION', 'Ministry') of ('ORGANIZATION', 'Advanced Education') for proposed degree , certificate and diploma programs . 
Discussion : Dr ('PERSON', 'Hopper') reported that the ('ORGANIZATION', 'Ministry') of ('ORGANIZATION', 'Advanced Education') has revised their program templates to include a detailed budget section and is requesting more information about program-level budgets . 
She noted that the ('ORGANIZATION', 'Provost') Office is working with units to develop this information as the university does not allocate funding or track expenditure at the program level . 
Ms ('PERSON', 'Finczak') reviewed the methodology utilized to develop program-level budgets and the assumptions made . 
Members discussed direct and indirect costs , the challenges in allocating faculty time to a specific program , how to distinguish research and teaching activities , and service teaching . 
A member stated that this data should not be used as hard evidence of revenues and costs . 
The ('PERSON', 'Chair') clarified that this formula is not being used to make internal institutional budget decisions and that government reviews this information through a program lens as opposed to a departmental one . 
7 . 
Materials before members are contained in the official meeting file . 
Presenter ( s ) : ('PERSON', 'Steven Dew') , ('PERSON', 'Chair') , and ('ORGANIZATION', 'Provost') and Vice-President ( ('ORGANIZATION', 'Academic') ) Proposed Changes to the ('ORGANIZATION', 'GFC Academic') Planning Committee ( ('ORGANIZATION', 'APC') ) Terms of ('ORGANIZATION', 'Reference') GFC Academic Planning Committee 10/25/2017 Page 4 Purpose of the Proposal : To discuss amendments to the ('ORGANIZATION', 'GFC Academic') Planning Committee ( ('ORGANIZATION', 'APC') ) terms of reference . 
Discussion : The ('PERSON', 'Chair') led members through the current committee terms of reference . 
A member suggested that the Deputy Provost should be added as a non-voting member . 
While it was noted that the Deputy Provost can attend as the ('ORGANIZATION', 'Provost') ’ s delegate , there was general agreement by the committee that the Deputy Provost could be a non- voting member . 
It was noted that information technology was missing from governance , even though IT impacts research , teaching and other scholarly activities . 
The ('PERSON', 'Chair') indicated that there are administrative committees that discuss IT governance and that further clarity on this item would be developed and brought back to members for further discussion . 
During the discussion on the proposed move of college programming from ('ORGANIZATION', 'APC') to the ('ORGANIZATION', 'GFC Academic') Standards Committee ( ('ORGANIZATION', 'ASC') ) , it was noted that more consultation with the ('ORGANIZATION', 'Dean') of ('PERSON', 'Faculté') Saint-Jean was needed . 
During the discussion , members enquired about the role of the member appointed by ('PERSON', 'Chairs') ’ Council , the difference between administrative committees and governance committees , ('ORGANIZATION', 'APC') ’ s role in quality assurance , the term “ school ” , and the manner in which fees and new fees are routed through governance . 
The ('ORGANIZATION', 'Chair') reported that this item would be included on future agendas for further discussion . 
8 . 
Update on the Budget There were no documents . 
Presenter ( s ) : ('PERSON', 'Steven Dew') , ('PERSON', 'Chair') , and ('ORGANIZATION', 'Provost') and Vice-President ( ('ORGANIZATION', 'Academic') ) Purpose of the Proposal : For information/discussion . 
Discussion : The ('ORGANIZATION', 'Chair') reported on the recent announcement of an anticipated 4 % reduction in base budget allocations for 2018-19 followed by projected 2.5 % reductions for both 2019-20 and 2020-21 . 
This is based on assumptions of no increase to the ('ORGANIZATION', 'Campus Alberta Grant') or tuition . 
Members discussed specific program cuts rather than across-the-board cuts as well as the impacts of this on Faculties . 
The ('PERSON', 'Chair') noted the current structural deficit , previous reliance on investment income for base funds , and cost challenges related to external contracts , minimum wage changes , and exchange rates . 
He also discussed the planning framework , the budget model , and multi-year forecasting . 
The ('PERSON', 'Chair') noted that there would be a town hall on the planning framework on November 9 and that there would be further discussion on this item at the November 8 meeting of ('ORGANIZATION', 'APC') . 
9 . 
Question Period There were no questions . 
('ORGANIZATION', 'INFORMATION') REPORTS 10 . 
There were no items . 
Items Approved by ('ORGANIZATION', 'GFC Academic') Planning Committee by e-mail Ballots 